# Library Search App

A Flask-based web application that allows librarians to search Folio instance records by exact subject heading and page through results.

## Features

- Search Folio instance records by exact subject heading.
- View title, subjects, contributors, and creation date of each record.
- Page through results, 10 records at a time.

## Project Structure

```
Library_app/
│
├── app.py        # Main Flask application
├── config.py     # contains authentication configuration
├── templates/    # HTML templates
├── static/       # CSS files
├── __pycache__/  # Auto-generated Python cache files
└── .idea/        # PyCharm project files
```


> Note: I used Pycharm so  `__pycache__/` and `.idea/` were automatically generated by Python and PyCharm but they are **not required** to run this application.

---

## Requirements

- Python 3.9 or higher  
- pip (Python package manager)  
- Flask  
- Requests  

---

## Installation (Any Machine, Any IDE)

These steps work whether you use PyCharm, VS Code, or just the command line.

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/julienyaware/library_app.git
cd library_app
```

### 2. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

### 3. Activate the virtual environment
```bash
venv\Scripts\activate
```
### 4.install dependencies

```bash
pip install flask requests
```
### 5.Running the Application
```bash
python app.py
```
The app will run on your browser on : 
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000
```
## API Endpoints Used

This application interacts with the Folio Integrated Library System via its REST APIs.

### Base API URL
```
https://kong-gvsu-test.folio.ebsco.com
```

All requests  include the following custom header which is a variable assigned in config.py in the project:
```
x-okapi-tenant: x-okapi-tenant value
```
---

### Authentication Endpoint

Used to authenticate and obtain an access token required for all other API requests.

**Endpoint:**
```
POST /authn/login-with-expiry
```

**Headers:**
```
Content-Type: application/json
x-okapi-tenant: fs00001041
```

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "username": "USERNAME",
  "password": "PASSWORD"
}
```
---

### Search Instance Records by Subject

Used to search for instance records by an exact subject heading.

**Endpoint:**
```
GET /search/instances
```

**Query Parameters:**
```
expandAll=true
query=subjects==<exact-subject-string>
limit=10
offset=0
```

- Subject matching is exact (case-insensitive).
- Results are paginated using `limit` and `offset`.

**Example:**
```
/search/instances?expandAll=true&limit=10&offset=0&query=subjects==Anthropology
```

---

### Inventory Instances

Used during development to inspect record structure.

**Endpoint:**
```
GET /inventory/instances
```

> Note: This endpoint is not used in the application UI. It was used for development and debugging purposes to understand the structure of instance records.




